well hany Mahmud is joining us live now
from Rafa in southern Gaza uh hany can
you bring us up to date on the latest on
the strikes overnight and the current
state of the
fighting yes Harry it just uh as the
world celebrating a new year uh and with
fireworks and and festivities everywhere
Palestinians in the Gaza Strip are are
running for their life are looking for
places to shelter in and take them as a
refuge from the unpredictable bombs that
overnight in the central area of the
Gaza Strip has been pounded repeatedly
but overnight we're looking at an area
that was designated as a safe zone for
Palestinian to evacuate to namely we're
talking in particular about der bah City
where a residential homes was targeted a
residen full of displaced Palestinians
and evacuates from different parts of
the northern part and Gaza today the
reports of five Palestinian were killed
in that residential H Zone a different
air strikes and artillery shellings at
the Eastern side uh of the of the Gaza
STP in the central part particularly we
look at more refugee camps being being
targeted so far within the past uh few
weeks we're looking at cities we're
looking at tows refugee camps being uh
targeted and more residential homes
being destroyed more displacement of
Palestinians in fact as of now we're
looking at a large large segments of the
population more than 85% of the
population is displaced and and the vast
majority of them lives in tense in an
open largely sand area here in in in
Rafa City on this particular New Year
Eve Gins are looking for a safer one one
in which their families will prosper not
buried under the rubbles and not wrapped
in white
sheet and of course gin's also worried
about the state of the aid program the
amount of food and water in medicine I
mean the the world food program has been
warning again about the risk of famine
what kind of lengths are people going to
to find enough to survive
on well Harry so far we're seeing people
queue in line for long hours in
different uh uh operated and managed
honor was centers here in Rafa City but
it just given the number of centers very
very small compared to the large number
of people who are in need of this help
we've seen them queuing for half a day
or sometimes for two or three days just
to register for available assistance and
when we talk about what available
assistance there is just trickle amount
of food we're talking about food coupons
and just a small amount of of rice a
small amount of of of bread and cheese
just to get them through the days there
are reports about people here living on
one meal a day and sometime they go with
their children for one or two days
without any food the uh the help here is
very very small but the demand is is so
great given the fact that the the vast
majority of of Gaza population has been
squeezed in this is smallest lever of
land in the southern part of the Gaza
Strip so we're looking at the
infrastructure
the uh the facilities the the available
food and humanitarian Aid and look at
the large number of people who are in
need of this just important to point out
that people lift everything in Gaza and
the northern part and now from the
central part as well adding more
pressure on evacuation Center literally
they walked away from their homes under
def falling bombs with nothing in their
hands okay hanim Mahmud in Rafa in
southern Gaza thank you very much